standing room only, sometimes we take whizzed care of books.
Even when people bring stuff here, you know, if they just want to show it to us, but if it's not well cared for, I send them away with a box or something like that, because I sort of think it's my job to take care of the books of the world.
And one solander box is not going to break the bank of the Getty, and it seems like that's a good thing to do, to make sure the book is well cared for.
And so if you can do that, you know, if you can show people how to take care of a book or how they should store it, that's a good thing to do, I think.
Just to go off on the side of the dendrocks about making these situations.
Books seem different.
You're almost a custodian for these libraries.
You always have thought that you own them, but you're to preserve and take care of them.
Passing on it.
Yeah.
And they'll have another life beyond our own lives.
I also think that some people initially were critical of our buying at auctions of great libraries, because they thought we were aiding the dispersion of great libraries.
But I think books have these long lives, and they move through collections.
The cycle of books is a long way to do.
The Doheny Library, for instance, that was up in Camarillo, was a really amazing collection of books.
It wasn't being taken care of.
It wasn't being used.
I mean, it was being taken care of.
They couldn't wait for the twenty-five years to come up so they could sell it to be real.
She said twenty-five years, and twenty-five years to the day they put it up.
But they wanted it to be kept together initially.
The diocese said that they wanted that as the Doheny Library.
And I really think it's okay.
Well, you get books out there, and you get them in places where they'll be conserved and appreciated and used appropriately.
Working with other curious, we're not terribly pleased with the condition, but it's a really rare book.
And so we can't find it
anywhere.
Part of the question is, how much do you want to pay for something that's not in excellent condition?
But the big one is, should you let it go?
Are you going to see it again?
That's right.
That's precisely what I argue.
You would have to be a fortune teller to know that.
At a certain point, we get together and just
Some little group of us votes on it when we don't feel comfortable making our own decision.
It is really hard.
When it's a unique object, in some ways it's a little easier because you know you're not going to see this again.
So with archives and things like that, it's a little bit easier.
But one is a collection of photographs that we're working on.
So we know there might be some out there, but photographs.
These are 1860s.
One is 1860s, one is 1880s albums, one is in a photographically illustrated book.
That's a really hard one, and we're just kind of twisting about it.
But condition is the key here?
Oh, yeah.
It's condition.
Because we're not completely pleased with the condition, but we're not sure that we can think we're going to see this again.
I mean, we all know why a condition is condition, but why should that be the determining factor here?
Because in one case, in one of the books, the condition is not that great.
And it's an important work that was published by a turn-of-the-century Vienna secessionist publisher who was known, he was the publisher of Ver Sacrum, this beautiful
you know, special paper illustrated journal.
And so you, for us, we want that in the best condition possible.
And this one isn't.
But when I was in New York, I looked at New York Public Library's copy.
It's a portfolio of plates.
They bound it in a brown buckram binding.
They threw away the slipcase.
Not NYTL.
Yes.
They did that.
It's not their fault.
They didn't understand, when they did that, that this was an important document of the secessionist publishers.
No one had that point of view, say, even 20 years ago.
I could go through lots of university libraries and find exactly the same thing.
UCLA, any of them.
They didn't have this view that we have.
I think this view that prizes the object
and it takes into account the history of the book and what it looked like originally, is very recent.
Don't you?
I think so.
Because I only learned about that.
I learned about it a little bit in terms of rare books from Lehmanhaupt, but then I only started to really apply it, I think, when I came here.
And I had taught history of the book, and so I started to apply things that I used with
say, 15th to 19th century books to 20th century books, because I realized these were designed.
These were carefully produced books that are part of that general art movement.
So they tell you about the development of the avant-garde and the history of modernism.
When you can look at a car, you can look at a cereal box, you can look at a matchbook cover, and it'll tell you something
a work on paper or a designed object, that the books will tell you as well.
So that modernist evolution is really important to me.
That whole concept of paratexts, the paratextual element of Jeanette is his name.
You know the book that's called Paratext?
And all these elements outside of the text, they're as much a part of the artifact as the text itself.
I'm telling you fans about it.
Yeah.
But I think that's a very recent point of view.
Oh, it is.
I think that word just comes in within the last 10 years.
Remember when libraries used to bind journals, and particularly early periodicals from the 19th century, they took out all the advertising matter because they thought that all that was important was the actual articles and the illustrations.
So they did that to
some journals, now we would shoot ourselves.
I mean, we'd never do that.
Because you want to know all those things.
And so I think that people are just interested in different things.
And also cultural historians have really pushed that, because they think all kinds of things are important now.
Yeah.
They used to throw away the covers.
Well, L.C.
still doesn't keep the covers.
To this day, Library of Congress still chucks the covers.
To this day.
To this day, yeah.
I mean, as far as six months ago, they don't.
They just can't fool around with it.
And they acknowledge it, and they say it's a mistake, and maybe it will change.
And you know, in some books, you get some books by Sendak, but I noticed you got a Sendak piece of art up there.
You know, there are Sendak books that have different pieces of art, different things in the dust jacket.
are not in the book, and yet they will be throwing these things away.
It's crazy.
You've been very generous with your time.
I'm not even paying attention to the time.
Well, it's so much fun to talk about.
And we didn't even talk about that next book, the book, actually, what most of us do.
The formatting is starting when we buy audio archives or videos or things 20th century artistic performances or
documents when people were noticing that a lot of gallery owners or other art historians made tapes with artists now.
They are so high maintenance.
We get them, and then we have to reformat them, and we have to make archival copies and use copies and masters.
We buy a book, maybe we have to make a box for it.
Maybe we have to clean it a little.
I mean, we buy things in such good condition that we don't even have to do that.
They are so low-maintenance.
It is so interesting.
The books... Yeah, this isn't true at all.
And it's so interesting because the other thing is with digital formats, you don't even know how long that's going to last.
We have no idea how long they're going to last.
some of these things that we buy, because they're important and interesting, they're excruciatingly high-maintenance.
And we don't even know that we've even captured it.
And somebody has to—one of the examples I use is the Viking data, you know, from the 60s.
Thirty percent of that stuff is useless now, because they stored it on magnetic tapes, and the things that have decayed are certain kinds of cards that they can't access anymore.
Oh, there was a big scandal about it.
We spent millions and millions of dollars
And, of course, all of it wasn't looked at.
I mean, they brought back just all kinds of material that was supposed to keep the astronomers busy for, you know, thirty years.
And they go to this stuff now and they can't get it.
Thanks a lot, you know.
My favorite fact that I'm always kind of dragging, everyone's probably really sick of this thing that I drag out all the time at, you know, conferences and meetings that we have, but the most stable books.
are the ones from the 18th century.
They're fine.
It's beautiful.
It's lovely.
About 1860s.
The big problems are the modern books and then the objects.
They're so difficult.
And so it's very interesting that we haven't learned a thing.
You know William Blades' The Enemies of Books?
That's a famous book.
I have a quote from that.
I call that a real life book.
And of course, he was crazy.
He actually got himself a bookworm, you know, and somebody had sent him a live bookworm.
And so he put it out in a little box, and he tried to, I used it, like, oh, she gave it, it wouldn't touch the,
It would go near the contemporary books because of the acids and stuff.
He put a little bit of Jensen in there, a little bit of Caxton in there, whatever.
He says, they love that.
They love this stuff.
It's like a banquet.
He says, they won't go near.
He's writing in the 1860s.
It's a fabulous quote.
And then he said the bookworm finally dies, you know, and it's hysterical, you know.
This is good.
One of the things that I really believe is that books have these lives, and Lamanhap wrote this book called The Life of the Book, and I believe that books have these— The Life of the Book?
Yeah, it's a book for children, and it's about— Lamanhap wrote this?
Yeah, it's a very nice— The Life of the Book.
Yeah, I bet you can get it, you know— Well, ABE books, I'll probably find it in the theater.
I have it at home, unfortunately, it's not here, but it's this nice book for children
on why books are important.
It's very sweet, and I really believe that books have lives, and they live much longer than we do, and they go from place to place, and they convey knowledge.
That's the theme of my trilogy.
Come on now.
That's a big belief of mine, and so it's nice to participate in that.
to see that you're part of it, but you're going to die.
But these books are just going to go on and on.
And we have to think, quote, men may come and men may go, but books go on forever.
The surest and swiftest way to immortality is the creation of a great library.
That comes as close to explaining why he was so emboldened to create the Huntington Library.
He saw his immortality through the books, which would long survive him forever.
That's great.
It's been very good.
And of course we also write in this new book, we went to San Lazaro Island in Venice, where the Armenians have preserved their culture since 1720.
I'm very interested in exile libraries, expatriate libraries.
I write about the destruction of the library in Sarajevo in 1992.
One night, 1.2 million books destroyed.
in an attempt at the ethnic cleansing.
If you're going to kill the people, you really have to destroy their books.
Yeah, you get their cultural heritage, yeah.
You have to get the books.
And then the attempt by Harvard and elsewhere to replicate or to reseed, if it's possible, but to try and use whatever means they can.
And then there's a guy, he's up at Harvard now, he's a librarian, Gene Smith.
He's not at Harvard, but he's based in Cambridge.
Remember, I introduced you to him in New York.
He's been gathering up all the Tibetan books.
And he has more Tibetan books than there are in Tibet, you know.
Books that have been taken out over the last 40, 50 years.
That kind of stuff.
I'm interested in the books of threatened cultures and attempts to create exile libraries, expatriate libraries.
The Polish library, Martin Gregorian told me, he said, when you're in Paris, go to the Polish library in Il San Luis.
It was in Il San Luis in the city, the one right behind me.
The Notre Dame.
The Notre Dame, yeah.
You know, that's when there was no Poland.
For 150 years when there was no Poland, when it was broken up, a group of Polish intellectuals went to Paris and created what was, in essence, the National Library of Poland in Paris.
Yeah, yeah.
And it's fabulous.
So that kind of stuff is what we're doing.
It's very sad.
Some of the scholars who come here from East Germany and from the other countries, you know, just lost everything in World War II.
And we have all the books that they used to have and use, and sometimes— Here at the Getty?
Or you mean here in the U.S.?
Here.
Here at the Getty.
Really?
Yeah, and so in some cases— What kinds of books?
Artists?
Art history.
Yeah, just the artists' monographs and histories.
But they're all, you know, books that were in their libraries, but they don't have anymore.
There was a program a couple of years ago we sort of refurbished with some of our duplicates from the large collections.
I'd like to know about that.
Can I email you on that?
Yeah, let me get the facts on it.
We sent books.
We sent huge loads of books to the Eastern European countries.
That would be of immense interest to us.
That absolutely fits into the thing.
I'm sure it's in one of our old annual reports, but I'll find it and send it to you.
Actually, if you want, I can send you
I might need to make a copy of the collector's book, and if you want the world from here sent to you so you don't have to carry it back.
I carry that.
Really?
Okay.
It's really wonderful because I love these books that have devices of wonder.
They have little vignettes, and so they have little stories about groupings or the books, and that's what they did.
We got that idea, of course, from the
Oh, shoot.
What was the Philadelphia show, Legacies of Genius?
That was the whole thing that started Gentle Madness.
There wouldn't be a Gentle Madness if Marie Curie and Eddie Wolfe didn't do that show.
The Legacies of Genius, yeah.
That's kind of what this L.A.
show is like.
What's your email address?
Oh, it's M. Reed.
It's on my card.
Oh, it's on my card.
So you've got it.
Okay, good.
So that's easy, but it's intuitive.
It's just mreed at getty.edu, but it's there.
Books to Eastern Europe.
Okay.
Let me dig out some things.
I'm sorry, you could probably tell I could talk forever about this stuff.
I'm sorry.
You haven't seen us running for the tour, have you?
Just changing tapes.